---
title: "Change the bar date/time format"
weight: 4
description: >
  Change the date/time format used in the bar.
---

You may prefer a different date/time format than what's set by default.  This tutorial requires us to make a single change to the Xresource file that defines the date format used in the bar.  The date is generated by the `date` command, and the formatting options are [documented here](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/date.1.html).

1. Stage your own Xresource file [(tutorial)](../stage-configs), then open `~/.Xresources-regolith` in your editor of choice.
2. The file should contain a single line which is an `#include` to another Xresource file.  Let's copy the contents of that referenced file into our Xresource file rather than having the include.  To do this, exit out of the editor and run `cp /etc/regolith/styles/cahuella/root ~/.Xresources-regolith`
3. Ok, now back in editing the file, it should look something like this:
```
! -- Styles - Colors
#include "/etc/regolith/styles/cahuella/color"

! -- Styles - Fonts
#include "/etc/regolith/styles/cahuella/typeface"

! -- Styles - Theme
#include "/etc/regolith/styles/cahuella/theme"

! -- Applications
! These files map values defined above into specific app settings.
#include "/etc/regolith/styles/st-term"
#include "/etc/regolith/styles/i3-wm"
#include "/etc/regolith/styles/i3xrocks"
#include "/etc/regolith/styles/rofi"
#include "/etc/regolith/styles/gnome"
```
4. The setting we need to change is set in `/etc/regolith/styles/i3xrocks`.  Let's create our own copy of that and reference it from our Xresource file.  You'll need to specify the path to the file explicitly, and cannot use `$HOME` or `~/` as a shortcut.  First, update the line in your open editor to point to a file we haven't created yet:
```
#include "/etc/regolith/styles/i3xrocks"
```
...should be changed to:
```
#include "/home/[YOUR USER NAME]/.Xresources-i3xrocks"
```
5. Now lets create that file:
```bash
$ cp /etc/regolith/styles/i3xrocks ~/.Xresources-i3xrocks
```
6. Finally, we can edit the file to change the date format.  Load ~/.Xresources-i3xrocks into a text editor, and change:
```
i3xrocks.date.format:       + %m/%d %I:%M %p
```
...to your preferred date format, or this for just the time:
```
i3xrocks.date.format:       + %I:%M %p
```

### Verification

After saving the file, you can run `regolith-look refresh` or `xrdb -merge ~/.Xresources-regolith` for the changes to take effect.  You can verify that the setting was changed by checking the value on the command line:
```bash
$ xrescat i3xrocks.date.format
```
